---
layout: post
title: Updated Look & Feel
tags: updates
author: Lee Fastenau
---
Are you an old school Apple nerd? Did you learn Applesoft in the 70's? If not, that's okay. If you said "yes," then you might recognize the updated look & feel of the site.

{% include img.html src="/assets/images/post/new-look-retro.png" caption="Apple II BASIC Programming Manual cover art" alt="Pencil and watercolor illustration of people using Apple 2 computers." %}
<!--more-->

## Backstory

In its recent former life, this site only existed as a Github repository. I tried to make the repo as user-friendly as possible, spending considerable time ensuring all the pages (stored as markdown files) were easy-to-read and formatted as consistently as possible. However, using markdown alone had its limitations. Navigating between markdown files wasn't very intuitive, I had little control over content layout, and no ability at all to customize colors and typography.

{% include img.html src="/assets/images/post/new-look-typography.png" caption="Typography inspiration from the BASIC manual" alt="Partial scan of a programming manual with the words 'CHAPTER 2 BEGINNING BASIC' and a short table of contents." %}

## Github Pages To The Rescue

Turns out the folks at Github had a solution: Github Pages. The short-and-sweet of it is that Github offers free hosting of static websites generated using a tool called Jekyll. To start with, I used a Github-compatible Jekyll theme called Minimal, but soon realized that it too was harshing my creative groove. The _feel_ I was going for was very specific. 

{% include img.html src="/assets/images/post/new-look-typography2.png" caption="More typography inspiration" alt="Typography sample from a programming manual showing a bold section heading, some normal copy, and some green Applesoft code." %}

## The Feel

I own a copy of _The <nobr>Apple II</nobr> BASIC Programming Manual_--it's the same copy my dad shared with me when I was a kid. Every time I flip through its pages, I'm immediately teleported to a time when Apple was not a household name, when I could barely comprehend the raw potential of the 1MHz <nobr>Apple II</nobr> computer sitting in front of me, much less the computer industry as a whole. 

This book represents the beginning of my 45-year programming journey. A journey I would have never imagined taking as a kid who was barely able to type. For me, this book still represents _possibilities_ and that's what I want my website to convey to the <nobr>Apple II</nobr> enthusiast community and maybe even to budding programmers.

## Conclusion

I got the design mostly where I want it. It's not perfect and may never be. But I think I've managed to capture at least some of the essence of _The <nobr>Apple II</nobr> BASIC Programming Manual_.